docs/upgrade_guide.md, before:

# Upgrade guide for OpenKit .NET

## OpenKit .NET 2.0 to 2.1
There are no breaking API changes and upgrading is straightforward, by [updating][update] the library
to the latest 2.1 release.

### Deprecated API
* `IAction.ReportError(string errorName, int errorCode, string reason)`  
  Use `IAction.ReportError(string errorName, int errorCode)` without `string reason` argument, as
  `reason` is unhandled in Dynatrace.

## OpenKit .NET 1.4 to 2.0
There are no breaking API changes and upgrading is straightforward, by [updating][update] the library
to the latest 2.0 release.

### Deprecated API
* `IWebRequestTracer.SetResponseCode(int responseCode)` and `IWebRequestTracer.Stop()`  
  Use `IWebRequestTracer.Stop(int responseCode)` instead as replacement.
* `DynatraceOpenKitBuilder.WithApplicationName(string applicationName)`  
  The application name is configured in Dynatrace Web UI.
* `AbstractOpenKitBuilder.EnableVerbose()`  
  Use `AbstractOpenKitBuilder.WithLogLevel(LogLevel.DEBUG)` instead.
* `AbstractOpenKitBuilder.WithModelID(string modelId)`  
  Use `AbstractOpenKitBuilder.WithModelId(string modelId)` instead.

## OpenKit .NET 1.3 and below to 1.4
There are no breaking API changes and upgrading is straightforward, by [updating][update] the library
to the latest 1.4 release.

### Deprecated API
* `DynatraceOpenKitBuilder(string endPointUrl, string applicationId, string deviceId)`  
   Use `DynatraceOpenKitBuilder(string endPointUrl, string applicationId, long deviceId)` instead.
* `AppMonOpenKitBuilder(string endpointUrl, string applicationName, string deviceId)`  
   Use `AppMonOpenKitBuilder(string endpointUrl, string applicationName, long deviceId)` instead.

[update]: ./installing.md#Updating-OpenKit-.NET

Commit message:

Pull request #197: Prepare OpenKit .NET release 2.2
Merge in OP/openkit-dotnet from feature/ONE-55609-prepare-release-2.2.0 to release/2.2

* commit '610c3fe5ab216fc96c3ab3f824f6d1de686c3926':
  Prepare OpenKit .NET release 2.2

GitOrigin-RevId: 38b0126e8bb838915c9ac0d447bc0eb9cb55c2ce

docs/upgrade_guide.md, after:

# Upgrade guide for OpenKit .NET

## OpenKit .NET 2.1 to 2.2
There are no breaking API changes and upgrading is straightforward, by [updating][update] the library
to the latest 2.2 release.

## OpenKit .NET 2.0 to 2.1
There are no breaking API changes and upgrading is straightforward, by [updating][update] the library
to the latest 2.1 release.

### Deprecated API
* `IAction.ReportError(string errorName, int errorCode, string reason)`  
  Use `IAction.ReportError(string errorName, int errorCode)` without `string reason` argument, as
  `reason` is unhandled in Dynatrace.

## OpenKit .NET 1.4 to 2.0
There are no breaking API changes and upgrading is straightforward, by [updating][update] the library
to the latest 2.0 release.

### Deprecated API
* `IWebRequestTracer.SetResponseCode(int responseCode)` and `IWebRequestTracer.Stop()`  
  Use `IWebRequestTracer.Stop(int responseCode)` instead as replacement.
* `DynatraceOpenKitBuilder.WithApplicationName(string applicationName)`  
  The application name is configured in Dynatrace Web UI.
* `AbstractOpenKitBuilder.EnableVerbose()`  
  Use `AbstractOpenKitBuilder.WithLogLevel(LogLevel.DEBUG)` instead.
* `AbstractOpenKitBuilder.WithModelID(string modelId)`  
  Use `AbstractOpenKitBuilder.WithModelId(string modelId)` instead.

## OpenKit .NET 1.3 and below to 1.4
There are no breaking API changes and upgrading is straightforward, by [updating][update] the library
to the latest 1.4 release.

### Deprecated API
* `DynatraceOpenKitBuilder(string endPointUrl, string applicationId, string deviceId)`  
   Use `DynatraceOpenKitBuilder(string endPointUrl, string applicationId, long deviceId)` instead.
* `AppMonOpenKitBuilder(string endpointUrl, string applicationName, string deviceId)`  
   Use `AppMonOpenKitBuilder(string endpointUrl, string applicationName, long deviceId)` instead.

[update]: ./installing.md#Updating-OpenKit-.NET
